Hello, i would like to take the next few minutes to talk you through some of the amazing features of the Matlab stats pack

To begin, lets get some data. This data is from 2001 gallop poll servey which asked parents if it was best if bothe patrents work, only one parets works, or neither parents works if they want to have the best result for the child.

Afer we have our data, there are some nice commands that let us learn about it. For example, the tabulate command shows all the possible values that workpref can take on, their counts and their precentages. 

There are also a bunch of different display's we can make of this data. For instance, a pie chart, or a barchart. 

Ok, lets see what else matlab can do. in addition to handeling univariate data, matlab can also handle bivariate data. So, let's give it a little more data. here are th results of the same surver from 1991.In order to analyze this data we need to make a matrix contining  this data from 1991 al well as the data from 2001. here's that matrix. Now we can make a bar graph of it. Unfortunatley, when we make the bar graph we see that the bars are of two very different heights. So it is hard to tell if the oppionins have changed much from 1991 to 2001. In order to fix this problem we should make a realitive frequency bar chart. So were gonna have to change our matrix m so it shows precentages instead of counts. there that is right there. And then we make the same sort of bar graph we made before.This makes ot easy to se the oppions have changed from 1991 to 2001. So that's analyzing categorical variables. Now, let's analyze a quantative one. This data is from a consumer reports article from the 1960 talking about the hourse power of serveral cars. it's easy to visiluize this type of data. For instance, we can make a histrogram using the hist command. It looks like this. You can make a stem-and-leaf plot using an optional command. there it is. And we can also doa box plot. 

Ok, now lets talk about some other types of dta Matlab can analyze. This time lets do a linear regression. So, for this were gonna look at some used car adds.The age variable is how old the car is, and the price variable shows how much a person is asking for their car. Now, if we want to make a simple plot of these we can use the scatter command, and we will do scatter, age, price. Which makes a nice scatter plot. to do this we will use the regstats command. This gives us a menue with a whole bunch of this we can know about our regression. For right now, we want the coeficcient of our regresion, we want the residuals and the rsquared statistics. We'll hit return, and it saves all those variables. Ok, so now lets take a look at them. The beta contains the b-value and the m-value of our regression, and the requared vale gives us the r-squared statistic. Also, if we want to look at a scatter plot of the residuals, we can do another scatter plot in which we plot the age of the car versus its residual, r. This lets us see if ther's any trend in the residuals. 

Well, I hope you've enjoyed this short introduction to some of the many features of the Matlab stats pack. Please see my user's guide for more information on any of these commands.